July release notes (#3358)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/dev/docs/pages/releases/2022-07-09.mdx

date: 2022-07-29
---

# July 29, 2022 Release

In this release, we focused on improvements to bundle size and developer experience. These include tree shaking improvements, large dependency removal, API simplification, TypeScript improvements, and a big documentation overhaul. And as always, we also have lots of bug fixes for our existing components.

## Developer experience

Based on feedback from the community, we have been working on a number of developer experience improvements for React Aria. We have updated many of our older hooks to follow our newer API conventions which reduce boilerplate and details you need to worry about. We have added states such as `isPressed`, `isSelected`, and `isDisabled` to the return values of many hooks, which can be used for styling purposes. We have also reduced the number of hooks you need to call, and the number of arguments you need to manually pass between them.

> We have also made many improvements to the React Aria documentation. We’ve added styled examples in CodeSandbox for many of our hooks, which demonstrate various styling libraries and techniques such as Tailwind CSS, Styled Components, CSS modules, and more. We have also added a “Usage” section to all of our docs, which includes various examples showing the features and options of components built with our hooks. Finally, all React Aria examples now use the `react-aria` and `react-stately` mono packages rather than individual component packages, which reduces the number of npm packages you need to install and manage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have added a number of improvements to the React Aria documentation. There are new styled examples in CodeSandbox for several of our hooks, which demonstrate various styling libraries and techniques such as Tailwind CSS, Styled Components, CSS modules, and more. We have also added a “Usage” section to all of our docs, which includes various examples showing the features and options of components built with our hooks. Finally, all React Aria examples now use the `react-aria` and `react-stately` mono packages rather than individual component packages, which reduces the number of npm packages you need to install and manage.
```

> We have also improved the TypeScript experience in this release. All of our packages including both individual packages and mono packages (e.g. `@adobe/react-spectrum`, `react-aria`, and `react-stately`) now export all of their types. This allows you to use them in your own components, without installing extra packages. In addition, all of our return types now support both HTML and SVG elements.

Reviewer 2: Mega nit: commas for clarity, thought for a sec that this meant all our packages include both the individual and monopackages
```suggestion
We have also improved the TypeScript experience in this release. All of our packages, including both individual packages and mono packages (e.g. `@adobe/react-spectrum`, `react-aria`, and `react-stately`), now export all of their types. This allows you to use them in your own components, without installing extra packages. In addition, all of our return types now support both HTML and SVG elements.
```

> More TypeScript and developer experience improvements will be coming in future updates!

Reviewer 3: Is this "promise" more of a marketing and we know we need to do more type message? It seems weird otherwise.

Author: Why is it weird? It is a thing we are working on!

* Pre-compile localized strings and remove intl-messageformat dependency to reduce bundle size - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3294)
* Remove dom-helpers dependency from @react-aria/overlays to reduce bundle size - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3291)
* Make all re-exports explicit to improve tree shaking - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3296)
* Export types from all packages - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3326)
* Make all types compatible with both HTML and SVG elements - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3321)
* Begin implementing TypeScript strict mode support: ButtonGroup - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3185)
* Add support for #rgba, and #rrggbbaa in color parser - [@spsDrop](https://github.com/spsDrop) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3228)

> * ActionGroup item custom props support - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3279)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add custom props support to `Item` for `ActionGroup` - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3279)
```

### Fixes

* Fix programmatically focusing `DatePicker` segments on iOS - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3253)

> * fix CalendarDateTime add and subtract - [@LFDanLu](https://github.com/LFDanLu) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3316)

Reviewer 2: Mega nit for consistency
```suggestion
* Fix CalendarDateTime add and subtract - [@LFDanLu](https://github.com/LFDanLu) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3316)
```

* Update intl-messageformat - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3203)
* Fix setTimeout type - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3239)

> * Fix FocusScope FocusManager accept node - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3227)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `FocusScope` accept node - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3227)
```

* Fix re-export of useValueEffect - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3335)

> * Fix DatePicker overlay position no label - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3344)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `DatePicker` overlay position for no label - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3344)
```

> * Fix isDisabled in tabs - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3342)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fix `isDisabled` in tabs - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3342)
```

Reviewer 3: Should Tabs be capitalized?

> * Fix `isDisabled` in tabs - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3342)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fix `isDisabled` in `Tabs` - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3342)
```
This is my only remaining question.

> *Handle empty navigator.userAgentData.platform - [@alirezamirian](https://github.com/alirezamirian) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3290)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Handle empty navigator.userAgentData.platform - [@alirezamirian](https://github.com/alirezamirian) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3290)
```

> * Ensure onChange fires before onBlur in NumberField - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3207)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensure onChange fires before onBlur in `NumberField` - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3207)
```

> * useColorWheelState getDisplayColor should not include alpha channel - [@majornista](https://github.com/majornista) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3274)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* getDisplayColor from useColorWheelState should not include alpha channel - [@majornista](https://github.com/majornista) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3274)
```

> * Fix Tabs flicker when resizing window - [@tomsontom](https://github.com/tomsontom) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3202)
> * Fix SSR of OverlayContainer portal - [@kobayang](https://github.com/kobayang) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3186)
> * Throw an exception when theme is not provided - [@lishichengyan](https://github.com/lishichengyan) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3322)
> * Fix useColorArea and ColorArea focus - [@majornista](https://github.com/majornista) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3278)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fix `Tabs` flicker when resizing window - [@tomsontom](https://github.com/tomsontom) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3202)
* Fix SSR of `OverlayContainer` portal - [@kobayang](https://github.com/kobayang) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3186)
* Throw an exception when theme is not provided - [@lishichengyan](https://github.com/lishichengyan) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3322)
* Fix useColorArea and `ColorArea` focus - [@majornista](https://github.com/majornista) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3278)
```

### Docs

* Add more styled examples to React Aria docs - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3280), [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3308)

### Under construction

Fixes to pre-released components are listed below. Please feel free to try them out, and report any issues you encounter.

[ListView](https://react-spectrum.adobe.com/react-spectrum/ListView.html) (RC)

> * Add disabledBehavior to ListView docs - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3261)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add disabledBehavior to `ListView` docs - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3261)
```

* Rename useList to useGridList - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3348)

> * Add support for illustration as thumbnail in ListView - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3249)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add support for illustration as thumbnail in `ListView` - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3249)
```

> * fix listview action alignment - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3340)

Reviewer 2: Mega nit:
```suggestion
* Fix listview action alignment - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3340)
```

> * Fix listview action alignment - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3340)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Fix `ListView` action alignment - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3340)
```
